docs(cockpit): clarify OpenTelemetry data exports (#6440)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/cockpit/how-to/manage-data-exports.mdx

    <Message type="tip">
      If you have already created an export, navigate to your data source's **Settings** tab and click **Create export** in the dedicated section.
    </Message>
6. Choose an export destination, and configure it according to the destination type.

>     **Datadog**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Tabs>
        <TabsTab label="Datadog">
```

>     - Enter the URL of your Datadog site in the **URL** field. The default URL is `https://api.datadoghq.eu/` for metrics and `https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/` for logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Enter the URL of your Datadog site in the **URL** field. The default URL is `https://api.datadoghq.eu/` for metrics and `https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/` for logs.
```

>     - Enter your Datadog API key in the **Datadog API Key** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Enter your Datadog API key in the **Datadog API Key** field.
       </TabsTab>
```

>     **OpenTelemetry**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <TabsTab label="Open Telemetry">
```

>     - Enter your OpenTelemetry endpoint in the **URL** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Enter your OpenTelemetry endpoint in the **URL** field.
```

>       For OTLP/HTTP destinations, enter the endpoint base URL only, without a signal-specific path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. Cockpit adds the OTLP signal path automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      For OTLP destinations, enter your endpoint URL without a specific OTLP path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. The exporter will automatically concatenate the correct path to your URL.
```

>       For OTLP destinations, enter your endpoint URL without a specific OTLP path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. The exporter will automatically concatenate the correct path to your URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            For OTLP destinations, enter your endpoint URL without a specific OTLP path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. The exporter will automatically concatenate the correct path to your URL.
```

>     You can also add headers to your OTLP export request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            You can also add headers to your OTLP export request:
```

>     - Click **+ Add variable** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Click **+ Add variable** 
```

>     - Enter your header key in the **Key** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Enter your header key in the **Key** field.
```

>     - Enter your header value in the **Value** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Enter your header value in the **Value** field.
```

>     - Optionally, click **+ Add variable** to add more headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - Optionally, click **+ Add variable** to add more headers.
        </TabsTab>
    </Tabs>
```

    <Message type="tip">
      If you have already created an export, navigate to your data source's **Settings** tab and click **Create export** in the dedicated section.
    </Message>
6. Choose an export destination, and configure it according to the destination type.

    **Datadog**

>     - Enter the URL of your Datadog site in the **URL** field. For example `https://api.datadoghq.eu/` for metrics or `https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/` for logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Enter the URL of your Datadog site in the **URL** field. The default URL is `https://api.datadoghq.eu/` for metrics and `https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/` for logs.
```

    - Enter your Datadog API key in the **Datadog API Key** field.

    **OpenTelemetry**

    - Enter your OpenTelemetry endpoint in the **URL** field.

>       For OTLP/HTTP destinations, enter the endpoint base URL only, without a signal-specific path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. Cockpit adds the OTLP signal path automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      For OTLP destinations, enter your endpoint URL without a specific OTLP path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. 
      The exporter will automatically concatenate the correct path to your URL.
```

    **HTTP headers**

    - Click **+ Add header** to add a header and attach extra information, like credentials or metadata, to your HTTP requests.
    - Enter your token in the **Key** field.
    - Enter your token value in the **Value** field.
    - Optionally, click **+ Add header** to add more headers.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can also add headers to your OTLP export request:
    
    - Click **+ Add variable** 
    - Enter your header key in the **Key** field.
    - Enter your header value in the **Value** field.
    - Optionally, click **+ Add variable** to add more headers.
```

7. In the **Products** drop-down, choose products whose metrics/logs you want to export.

    <Message type="note">
      - Only products that provide metrics/logs to Cockpit are eligible for export. Find out which products are eligible in the [dedicated documentation](/cockpit/reference-content/cockpit-product-integration).

>       - Selecting **All current and future products** means that all present Scaleway resources sending metrics/logs to Cockpit, and any future ones you create, will automatically be exported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - Selecting **All current and future products** means that the export will concern all current Scaleway products sending metrics/logs to your Cockpit, and any future new products that send metrics/logs to your Cockpit will also automatically be exported.
```

    <Message type="tip">
      If you have already created an export, navigate to your data source's **Settings** tab and click **Create export** in the dedicated section.
    </Message>
6. Choose an export destination, and configure it according to the destination type.

    <Tabs>
        <TabsTab label="Datadog">

            - Enter the URL of your Datadog site in the **URL** field. The default URL is `https://api.datadoghq.eu/` for metrics and `https://http-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu/` for logs.
            - Enter your Datadog API key in the **Datadog API Key** field.
       </TabsTab>

        <TabsTab label="Open Telemetry">

            - Enter your OpenTelemetry endpoint in the **URL** field.

>             For OTLP destinations, enter your endpoint URL without a specific OTLP path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. The exporter will automatically concatenate the correct path to your URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

            For OTLP destinations, enter your endpoint URL without a specific OTLP path such as `/v1/logs` or `/v1/metrics`. The exporter will automatically concatenate the correct path to your URL.
```

You can monitor your data exports in real time from your Cockpit Grafana dashboard.

To check whether a data export generates errors:

1. [Log in to Cockpit's Grafana](/cockpit/how-to/access-grafana-and-managed-dashboards/).
2. Click **Explore**.
3. Select your Cockpit metrics data source.
4. Run the following PromQL queries:

>     For log exports, run: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    For log exports, run: 
```

You can monitor your data exports in real time from your Cockpit Grafana dashboard.

To check whether a data export generates errors:

1. [Log in to Cockpit's Grafana](/cockpit/how-to/access-grafana-and-managed-dashboards/).
2. Click **Explore**.
3. Select your Cockpit metrics data source.

> 4. Run the following PromQL query for log exports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the following PromQL queries:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For log exports, run: 
```

```promql
sum(rate(observability_exporter_otelcol_exporter_send_failed_log_records_total[20m]))

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```promql
    sum(rate(observability_exporter_otelcol_exporter_send_failed_log_records_total[20m]))
    ```
```

> For metrics exports, use the following PromQL query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For metrics exports, run:
```

```promql
sum(rate(observability_exporter_otelcol_exporter_send_failed_metric_points_total[20m]))

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```promql
    sum(rate(observability_exporter_otelcol_exporter_send_failed_metric_points_total[20m]))
    ```
```

A value greater than `0` means that Cockpit generated export send errors during the selected time range. These metrics count failed records or metric points, but do not include the error message returned by the destination endpoint.

> 

Reviewer 2: Very useful thank you for taking the time to write documentation for the data-export ! 

(Hope to see you again in an Epitech talk soon @armeldemarsac92 ;) )

Author: My pleasure! Nice to see you around here :)

> A value greater than `0` means that Cockpit generated export send errors during the selected time range. These metrics count failed records or metric points, but do not include the error message returned by the destination endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A value greater than `0` means that Cockpit generated export send errors during the selected time range. These metrics count failed records or metric points, but do not include the error message returned by the destination endpoint.
```
